docs/sensors/programmatic.md, before:

# Programmatic dragging 🎮

![programmatic api logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2182637/60233733-ec8ade00-98e4-11e9-88b2-6fe407cf6bcb.jpg)

It is possible to drive an entire drag and drop experience programmatically 😱

You can use the programmatic API to:

- Create drag and drop interactions from **any input** type you can think of
- Create beautiful scripted **experiences**

The programmatic API is the same API that our [mouse](/docs/sensors/mouse.md), [keyboard](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md), and [touch](/docs/sensors/touch.md) sensors use. So it is powerful enough to drive any experience we ship out of the box.

## Overview

You create a `sensor` that has the ability to attempt to claim a **lock**. A **lock** allows _exclusive_ control of dragging within a `<DragDropContext>`. When you are finished with your interaction, you can then release the **lock**.

```js
function mySimpleSensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-1');
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();

  drag.moveDown();
  drag.moveDown();
  drag.moveDown();

  drag.drop();
}

function App() {
  return (
    <DragDropContext sensors={[mySimpleSensor]}>{/*...*/}</DragDropContext>
  );
}
```

## Lifecycle

![programmatic state flow](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2182637/58779115-35b67d80-8618-11e9-8934-6dfa2b14ce23.jpg)

1. Try to get a **lock** when a `sensor` wants to drag and item. A sensor might not be able to claim a lock for a variety of reasons, such as when another `sensor` already has a **lock**.
2. If a **lock** is obtained then there are a number of _pre drag_ actions available to you (`PreDragActions`). This allows a `sensor` to claim a lock before starting a drag. This is important for things like [sloppy click detection](TODO) where a drag is only started after a sufficiently large movement.
3. A _pre drag_ lock can be upgraded to a _drag lock_, which contains a different set of APIs (`FluidDragActions` or `SnapDragActions`). Once a `<Draggable />` has been lifted, it can be moved around.

## Rules

- Only one `<Draggable />` can be dragging at a time for a `<DragDropContext />`
- You cannot use outdated or aborted **locks** (see below)
- That's it!

## API

### Creating a `sensor`

A `sensor` is a [React hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html). It is fine if you do not want to use any of the React hook goodness, you can treat the `sensor` just as a function. React hooks are just functions that let you use the built in React hooks if you want to 🤫. You pass your `sensor` into the `sensors` array on a `<DragDropContext />`.

```js
function useMyCoolSensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const start = useCallback(function start(event: MouseEvent) {
    const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-2');
    if (!preDrag) {
      return;
    }
    preDrag.snapLift();
    preDrag.moveDown();
    preDrag.drop();
  }, []);

  useEffect(() => {
    window.addEventListener('click', start);

    return () => {
      window.removeEventListener('click', start);
    };
  }, []);
}

function App() {
  return (
    <DragDropContext sensors={[useMyCoolSensor]}>
      <Things />
    </DragDropContext>
  );
}
```

You can also disable all of the prebuilt sensors ([mouse](/docs/sensors/mouse.md), [keyboard](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md), and [touch](/docs/sensors/touch.md)) by setting `enableDefaultSensors={false}` on a `<DragDropContext />`. This is useful if you _only_ want a `<DragDropContext />` to be controlled programmatically.

### Controlling a drag: try to get a lock

A `sensor` is provided with a an object (`SensorAPI`) which is used to try to get a **lock**

```js
type SensorAPI = {|
  tryGetLock: TryGetLock,
  tryGetClosestDraggableId: (event: Event) => ?DraggableId,
|};
```

- `tryGetLock` (`TryGetLock`): a function that is used to **try** and get a **lock** for a `<Draggable />`.
- `tryGetClosestDraggableId(event)`: a function that will try to find the closest `draggableId` based on an event. It will look upwards from the `event.target` to try and find a _drag handle_

```js
export type TryGetLock = (
  draggableId: DraggableId,
  forceStop?: () => void,
  options?: TryGetLockOptions,
) => ?PreDragActions;
```

- `draggableId`: The `DraggableId` of the `<Draggable />` that you want to drag.
- `forceStop` (optional): a function that is called when the lock needs to be abandoned by the application. See **force abandoning locks**.

```js
type TryGetLockOptions = {
  sourceEvent?: Event,
};
```

- `sourceEvent` (optional): Used to do further validation when starting the drag from a user input event. We will do some [interactive element checking](TODO)

### Controlling a drag: pre drag (`PreDragAction`)

The `PreDragAction` object contains a number of functions:

```js
type PreDragActions = {|
  // discover if the lock is still active
  isActive: () => boolean,
  // whether it has been indicated if force press should be respected
  shouldRespectForcePress: () => boolean,
  // Lift the current item
  fluidLift: (clientSelection: Position) => FluidDragActions,
  snapLift: () => SnapDragActions,
  // Cancel the pre drag without starting a drag. Releases the lock
  abort: () => void,
|};
```

This phase allows you to conditionally start or abort a drag after obtaining an exclusive **lock**. This is useful if you are not sure if a drag should start such as when using [long press](/docs/sensors/touch.md) or [sloppy click detection](/docs/sensors/mouse.md). If you want to abort the pre drag without lifting you can call `.abort()`.

### Controlling a drag: dragging

You can lift a dragging item by calling either `.fluidLift(clientSelection)` or `snapLift()`. This will start a visual drag and will also trigger the `onDragStart` responder. There are two different _lift_ functions, as there are two different dragging modes: **snap dragging** (`SnapDragActions`) and **fluid dragging** (`FluidDragActions`).

#### Shared

```js
type DragActions = {|
  drop: (args?: StopDragOptions) => void,
  cancel: (args?: StopDragOptions) => void,
  isActive: () => boolean,
  shouldRespectForcePress: () => boolean,
|};

type StopDragOptions = {|
  shouldBlockNextClick: boolean,
|};
```

#### Fluid dragging

`<Draggable />`s move around naturally in response a moving point. The _impact_ of the drag is controlled by a _collision engine_. (This is what our [mouse sensor](/docs/sensors/mouse.md) and [touch sensor](/docs/sensors/touch.md) use)

```js
type FluidDragActions = {|
  ...DragActions,
  move: (clientSelection: Position) => void,
|};
```

Calls to `.move()` are throttled using [`requestAnimationFrame`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame). So if you make multipole `.move()` calls in the same animation frame, it will only result in a single update

```js
const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.fluidLift({ x: 0, y: 0 });

// will all be batched into a single update
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 1 });
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 2 });
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 3 });

// after animation frame
// update(x: 0, y: 3)
```

#### Snap dragging

`<Draggable />`s are forced to move to a new position using a single command. For example, "move down". (This is what our [keyboard sensor](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md) uses)

```js
export type SnapDragActions = {|
  ...DragActions,
  moveUp: () => void,
  moveDown: () => void,
  moveRight: () => void,
  moveLeft: () => void,
|};
```

## Force abandoning locks

A **lock** can be aborted at any time by the application, such as when an error occurs. If you try to perform actions on an aborted **lock** then it will not do anything. The second argument to `SensorAPI.tryGetLock()` is a `forceStop` function. The `forceStop` function will be called when the **lock** needs to be abandoned by the application. If you try to use any functions on the **lock** after it has been abandoned they will have no effect and will log a warning to the console.

```js
function useMySensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  let unbindClick;

  function forceStop() {
    if (unbindClick) {
      unbindClick();
    }
  }

  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-1', forceStop);
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();
  const move = () => drag.moveDown();
  window.addEventListener('click', move);
  unbindClick = window.removeEventListener('click', move);
}
```

The `PreDragActions`, `FluidDragActions` and `SnapDragActions` all have a `isActive()` function which can be called to discover if a lock is still active. So if you do not want to provide a `forceStop()` function, it is best to defensively call api's with a `isActiveCheck`.

```js
function useMySensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock();
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();
  const move = () => {
    if (drag.isActive()) {
      drag.moveDown();
      return;
    }
    // unbinding if no longer active
    window.removeEventListener('click', move);
  };
  window.addEventListener('click', move);
}
```

## Invalid behaviours

These are all caused by not respecting the lifecycle (see above)

> ⚠️ = warning logged
> ❌ = error thrown

- ⚠️ Using any `PreDragAction`, `FluidDragAction` or `SnapDragAction` after `forceStop()` is called
- ⚠️ Using any `PreDragAction` after `.abort()` has been called
- ⚠️ Using any `FluidDragAction` or `SnapDragAction` after `.cancel()` or `.drop()` has been called.
- ❌ Trying to call two `lift` functions on a `PreDragAction` will result in an error being thrown.

Commit message:

adding the ability to cancel an active lock to the sensor marshal

docs/sensors/programmatic.md, after:

# Programmatic dragging 🎮

![programmatic api logo](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2182637/60233733-ec8ade00-98e4-11e9-88b2-6fe407cf6bcb.jpg)

It is possible to drive an entire drag and drop experience programmatically 😱

You can use the programmatic API to:

- Create drag and drop interactions from **any input** type you can think of
- Create beautiful scripted **experiences**

The programmatic API is the same API that our [mouse](/docs/sensors/mouse.md), [keyboard](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md), and [touch](/docs/sensors/touch.md) sensors use. So it is powerful enough to drive any experience we ship out of the box.

## Overview

You create a `sensor` that has the ability to attempt to claim a **lock**. A **lock** allows _exclusive_ control of dragging within a `<DragDropContext>`. When you are finished with your interaction, you can then release the **lock**.

```js
function mySimpleSensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-1');
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();

  drag.moveDown();
  drag.moveDown();
  drag.moveDown();

  drag.drop();
}

function App() {
  return (
    <DragDropContext sensors={[mySimpleSensor]}>{/*...*/}</DragDropContext>
  );
}
```

## Lifecycle

![programmatic state flow](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2182637/58779115-35b67d80-8618-11e9-8934-6dfa2b14ce23.jpg)

1. Try to get a **lock** when a `sensor` wants to drag and item. A sensor might not be able to claim a lock for a variety of reasons, such as when another `sensor` already has a **lock**.
2. If a **lock** is obtained then there are a number of _pre drag_ actions available to you (`PreDragActions`). This allows a `sensor` to claim a lock before starting a drag. This is important for things like [sloppy click detection](TODO) where a drag is only started after a sufficiently large movement.
3. A _pre drag_ lock can be upgraded to a _drag lock_, which contains a different set of APIs (`FluidDragActions` or `SnapDragActions`). Once a `<Draggable />` has been lifted, it can be moved around.

## Rules

- Only one `<Draggable />` can be dragging at a time for a `<DragDropContext />`
- You cannot use outdated or aborted **locks** (see below)
- That's it!

## API

### Creating a `sensor`

A `sensor` is a [React hook](https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-intro.html). It is fine if you do not want to use any of the React hook goodness, you can treat the `sensor` just as a function. React hooks are just functions that let you use the built in React hooks if you want to 🤫. You pass your `sensor` into the `sensors` array on a `<DragDropContext />`.

```js
function useMyCoolSensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const start = useCallback(function start(event: MouseEvent) {
    const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-2');
    if (!preDrag) {
      return;
    }
    preDrag.snapLift();
    preDrag.moveDown();
    preDrag.drop();
  }, []);

  useEffect(() => {
    window.addEventListener('click', start);

    return () => {
      window.removeEventListener('click', start);
    };
  }, []);
}

function App() {
  return (
    <DragDropContext sensors={[useMyCoolSensor]}>
      <Things />
    </DragDropContext>
  );
}
```

You can also disable all of the prebuilt sensors ([mouse](/docs/sensors/mouse.md), [keyboard](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md), and [touch](/docs/sensors/touch.md)) by setting `enableDefaultSensors={false}` on a `<DragDropContext />`. This is useful if you _only_ want a `<DragDropContext />` to be controlled programmatically.

### Controlling a drag: try to get a lock

A `sensor` is provided with a an object (`SensorAPI`) which is used to try to get a **lock**

```js
export type SensorAPI = {|
  tryGetLock: TryGetLock,
  canGetLock: (id: DraggableId) => boolean,
  isLockClaimed: () => boolean,
  tryReleaseLock: () => void,
  findClosestDraggableId: (event: Event) => ?DraggableId,
  findOptionsForDraggable: (id: DraggableId) => ?DraggableOptions,
|};

export type DraggableOptions = {|
  canDragInteractiveElements: boolean,
  shouldRespectForcePress: boolean,
  isEnabled: boolean,
|};
```

- `tryGetLock` (`TryGetLock`): a function that is used to **try** and get a **lock** for a `<Draggable />`
- `canGetLock(id)`: returns whether a lock _could_ be claimed for a given `DraggableId`
- `isLockClaimed()`: returns `true` if any sensor currently has a lock
- `tryReleaseLock()`: will release any active lock. This can be useful for programmatically cancelling a drag.
- `findClosestDraggableId(event)`: a function that will try to find the closest `draggableId` based on an event. It will look upwards from the `event.target` to try and find a _drag handle_
- `findOptionsForDraggable(id)`: tries to lookup `DraggableOptions` associated with a `<Draggable />`

```js
export type TryGetLock = (
  draggableId: DraggableId,
  forceStop?: () => void,
  options?: TryGetLockOptions,
) => ?PreDragActions;
```

- `draggableId`: The `DraggableId` of the `<Draggable />` that you want to drag.
- `forceStop` (optional): a function that is called when the lock needs to be abandoned by the application. See **force abandoning locks**.

```js
type TryGetLockOptions = {
  sourceEvent?: Event,
};
```

- `sourceEvent` (optional): Used to do further validation when starting the drag from a user input event. We will do some [interactive element checking](TODO)

### Controlling a drag: pre drag (`PreDragAction`)

The `PreDragAction` object contains a number of functions:

```js
type PreDragActions = {|
  // discover if the lock is still active
  isActive: () => boolean,
  // whether it has been indicated if force press should be respected
  shouldRespectForcePress: () => boolean,
  // Lift the current item
  fluidLift: (clientSelection: Position) => FluidDragActions,
  snapLift: () => SnapDragActions,
  // Cancel the pre drag without starting a drag. Releases the lock
  abort: () => void,
|};
```

This phase allows you to conditionally start or abort a drag after obtaining an exclusive **lock**. This is useful if you are not sure if a drag should start such as when using [long press](/docs/sensors/touch.md) or [sloppy click detection](/docs/sensors/mouse.md). If you want to abort the pre drag without lifting you can call `.abort()`.

### Controlling a drag: dragging

You can lift a dragging item by calling either `.fluidLift(clientSelection)` or `snapLift()`. This will start a visual drag and will also trigger the `onDragStart` responder. There are two different _lift_ functions, as there are two different dragging modes: **snap dragging** (`SnapDragActions`) and **fluid dragging** (`FluidDragActions`).

#### Shared

```js
type DragActions = {|
  drop: (args?: StopDragOptions) => void,
  cancel: (args?: StopDragOptions) => void,
  isActive: () => boolean,
  shouldRespectForcePress: () => boolean,
|};

type StopDragOptions = {|
  shouldBlockNextClick: boolean,
|};
```

#### Fluid dragging

`<Draggable />`s move around naturally in response a moving point. The _impact_ of the drag is controlled by a _collision engine_. (This is what our [mouse sensor](/docs/sensors/mouse.md) and [touch sensor](/docs/sensors/touch.md) use)

```js
type FluidDragActions = {|
  ...DragActions,
  move: (clientSelection: Position) => void,
|};
```

Calls to `.move()` are throttled using [`requestAnimationFrame`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/window/requestAnimationFrame). So if you make multipole `.move()` calls in the same animation frame, it will only result in a single update

```js
const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.fluidLift({ x: 0, y: 0 });

// will all be batched into a single update
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 1 });
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 2 });
drag.move({ x: 0, y: 3 });

// after animation frame
// update(x: 0, y: 3)
```

#### Snap dragging

`<Draggable />`s are forced to move to a new position using a single command. For example, "move down". (This is what our [keyboard sensor](/docs/sensors/keyboard.md) uses)

```js
export type SnapDragActions = {|
  ...DragActions,
  moveUp: () => void,
  moveDown: () => void,
  moveRight: () => void,
  moveLeft: () => void,
|};
```

## Force abandoning locks

A **lock** can be aborted at any time by the application, such as when an error occurs. If you try to perform actions on an aborted **lock** then it will not do anything. The second argument to `SensorAPI.tryGetLock()` is a `forceStop` function. The `forceStop` function will be called when the **lock** needs to be abandoned by the application. If you try to use any functions on the **lock** after it has been abandoned they will have no effect and will log a warning to the console.

```js
function useMySensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  let unbindClick;

  function forceStop() {
    if (unbindClick) {
      unbindClick();
    }
  }

  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock('item-1', forceStop);
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();
  const move = () => drag.moveDown();
  window.addEventListener('click', move);
  unbindClick = window.removeEventListener('click', move);
}
```

The `PreDragActions`, `FluidDragActions` and `SnapDragActions` all have a `isActive()` function which can be called to discover if a lock is still active. So if you do not want to provide a `forceStop()` function, it is best to defensively call api's with a `isActiveCheck`.

```js
function useMySensor(api: SensorAPI) {
  const preDrag: ?PreDragActions = api.tryGetLock();
  // Could not get lock
  if (!preDrag) {
    return;
  }

  const drag: SnapDragActions = preDrag.snapLift();
  const move = () => {
    if (drag.isActive()) {
      drag.moveDown();
      return;
    }
    // unbinding if no longer active
    window.removeEventListener('click', move);
  };
  window.addEventListener('click', move);
}
```

## Invalid behaviours

These are all caused by not respecting the lifecycle (see above)

> ⚠️ = warning logged
> ❌ = error thrown

- ⚠️ Using any `PreDragAction`, `FluidDragAction` or `SnapDragAction` after `forceStop()` is called
- ⚠️ Using any `PreDragAction` after `.abort()` has been called
- ⚠️ Using any `FluidDragAction` or `SnapDragAction` after `.cancel()` or `.drop()` has been called.
- ❌ Trying to call two `lift` functions on a `PreDragAction` will result in an error being thrown.
